To add a little bit of dirt and grunge to this I've opened up a couple of grunge maps here that one's
not bad.
This one's pretty good.
So I think I'll use maybe a combination of these two.
I've gone ahead and added a little bit of texture for that handle.
And now we can go ahead and just grab one of these grunge Mamselle work with this one here.
Copy it.
I'll paste it.
And let's just take this and I'm just going to stretch this kind of to have it be the size of the map
right about here like that.
And then I will take the opacity down a bit like this and I'll also change the blend mode from normal
to multiply right here.
See how that works and that's looking pretty gross.
That's not bad.
OK.
I think that maybe it's a bit too much on the counter tops.
We'll have to see about that.
Maybe I can bring the opacity down just a little bit more like that you.
Let's try that let's try something like 25 here and then let's grab this other grunge map.
I'll hit the M key for Marcie's select and just kind of drag an area I don't think I want this big splotch
but everything else looks pretty good to me I'll just drag that area.
Copy that and then I'll paste it here as well.
And this I'll begin by trying to just stretch it over the whole thing.
We'll see how this works.
I may have to try and tile it but maybe this will work I'll switch it's blending mode to multiply as
well take the opacity down to maybe 25 as well.
That's not bad.
That's looking relatively Gross.
Let's give this a try and see how it looks.
So all export and I'll save it out and go ahead and overwrite that color map that we created earlier.
Here in Blender I'll go ahead and bring that in again.
Go to my kitchen folder grab that color map and open it up and there we go.
That's looking pretty gross.
I have to admit I would not want to eat dinner there.
So I think that will work.
The countertops I'm going to have junk on them I think like plates and trash things like that.
Not a whole lot but just enough to cover up some of that.
Yes so I think that'll work.
Let's go back and clean that texture map up.
Now I'll hide these layers and I'll go ahead and combine these two.
The grunge layers and just call them grunge.
I will need to change that back to multiply one I mean make sure that's going to look OK.
Yeah that's right.
Now that I've combined those two into one layer the grunge.
I need to combine the UVM apps into one now so I select those two and control or command e to combine
those.
Now I can go back to my magic wand tool and begin selecting around here so that we can delete the grunge
that we don't need that's extending out beyond the actual texture islands.
So it looks like I got them all there.
I'll go ahead and contract the selection by two pixels.
Then I'll choose the grunge.
There it is.
Hit delete.
There we go.
Now I can take everything and export this U.V. map so I will export.
Now over here in Blendr I'll bring it in one last time just to check it.
And there we go.
Now let's deal with this handle here.
Remember I said that we only needed to do this one time because every handle we duplicate off of this
is going to just sit right underneath this U.V. map so they'll all have the same texture and that's
OK because it's such a small part in the scene.
But let me go ahead and press the L key to select it and now maybe I can hit Control 1 and 5 and also
hit the Z key.
And let's just begin putting these in place so a press shift D and X and just begin moving these where
they need to go.
I've duplicated this one and I'm just going to move it over here and rotate it with our 9 0 and then
move it into place here.
Duplicate it and move it in the X and say get it right here.
Now I can hit the L key and select this one as well and begin duplicating these and moving them into
place on the cabinets here.
So duplicate that and move this up maybe there are going to be like down here
like this.
And then maybe we only need one for this cabinet so I'll just hover over this one and hit the L key.
Duplicate it and we'll maybe put it right here.
So now you can see that even though we've duplicated those all over it's all still only being represented
in the U-V map by one U-V Island.
So I think now we're about ready to export these out of Blendr and take them into unity.
However there's still all one material right.
It's all one object and that's fine.
But the problem is is we've got all one material and we're going to want to be able to differentiate
the different areas by different materials in unity.
So I think we need a material for the wood a material for the counters and a material for all the handles.
So for the countertops Let's tap into that mode and I'll just hover over this and press the L key and
I've got it delimited by the normals which means it will select everything even though there are seams
there.
And I'll do that with the backslashes and that countertop.
So let's give this a materialist just call these countertops all click the plus button up here click
new and we'll call this counter-top OK.
And we need to click a sign right.
OK so we already have the cabinet.
That's fine.
We just need these handles now so let's go ahead and grab these.
Now I could go through and hit L and select each one of these.
Another way to do it is I could maybe select it in here.
That would catch all of those.
So if I click this little button here.
And then when I can do is hit the B key board or select and border select all of this right there and
that selects all of them in the 3D view as well.
So now I can hit the plus button over here.
New material will call this cabinet handles and we go and assign.
Now we should have if we hit cabinets here we can select them and there they are de-select countertops
select de-select and handles.
Good.
All right.
We have all our materials here.
So now I think we are about ready to export these out of Blendr I'll hit the achy disliked everything
and because it's in its own layer we can select everything and just get what we want here and then I'll
go to file export FDX.
I will choose selected objects and I'll go ahead and this time take it right into the unity assets folder.
Here we go right into here and I'll call this kitchen cabinets underscore L for the left side of the
kitchen.
There we go.
And export here in Unity You can see the object already brought in.
Let's go ahead and bring the textures in as well.
Here and my textures folder.
I've got a kitchen folder and here is that color map I'll drag that in.
There it is.
All right.
Let's start bringing these in.
I'll drag the cabinets into the hierarchy and there they are.
I'll come over here and open up these materials and I'll just take each one of these two pure white
and now I'll drag this one texture map into the Al-Bayda slot of each of these materials.
We're going to use the same texture map for each one.
There we go.
All right so there we go we've got our handles are really nasty countertops and our cabinets.
Now we need to adjust the materials.
But before we do we really ought to bring a light source in here it's looking kind of dull here so I
will.
Right click in the hierarchy.
Go to light and I'll just go ahead and create a point light at least for now.
And let's bring that out here.
Bring it up near the ceiling like that.
So we kind of have a light source similar to what we might have in the final setup.
Now let's work on getting the materials a little better.
I think even though this is dirty and kind of nasty these materials would have a little bit more of
a shine to them.
So if I choose my kitchen cabinets object and come over here this is the handles these are going to
have a little bit more of a shine to them I think they are metallic If we zoom in here we can see the
reflection in them that may be a little much something like that perhaps.
All right.
Counter-top it is not metallic so I'm going to keep this fairly low.
But we may be able to see a little bit of reflection in here just ever so slightly like that something
like that and then the word is well we should probably have a little bit of shine to that.
It's not very metallic and it shouldn't be that shiny.
Let me bring it back.
Something kind of like that maybe yeah.
Now we can also create a normal map for this texture map.
Let's go do that in Photoshop and then bring it in.
So back here in Photoshop I'm going to go ahead and select all of these and create a group or call this
group originals and then I'll take all of these again and press alt and click and drag.
Outside of that group to duplicate all of these I'll turn that off and now I'll collapse all these into
one with control or command E and I'll call this normal.
That's our normal map.
Now come over here to filter 3D generate normal map.
I'll change this to cube.
And here we go we can kind of see some bump happening in here.
On the textures that may be all we need.
Let's give it a try.
I'll hit OK then I'll export this out.
And instead of underscores C Let's call this underscore in for normal.
And now let's take it into unity.
Here it is here in the kitchen folder.
I'll bring that in.
Let's select our kitchen cabinets and drag this into the normal map for each of these if we think we
need it.
Let me get fixed now here.
So there's the cabinets and countertop I'll go and put it in the countertop.
I don't think I'll put it in the cabinet handles material.
I don't think we need it there.
So you can kind of see I don't know if you can see it but there's a little bit of bump happening on
these which is what we want.
That's good.
All right so I mean to hit the play button.
And let's go into the kitchen and see how it looks.
Oh yeah.
Wow.
Those are nasty.
All right.
So there we have our kitchen cabinets.
Now before the next video I'm going to go ahead and finish up the cabinets here in the kitchen add a
few other things like the sink and the stove.
I'm also going to add a few other assets around the apartment.
I've got a weight bench I need to put in here I'm going to put the bathroom in and maybe a couple of
the doors and some other things.
So in the next video I just want to talk again about Virtex paint and color I.D. and substance paint
her as opposed to breaking up the parts of the model into different materials.
So if you're bringing the model directly into unity you're going to need separate materials that you
can work with.
However if you use something like substance paint or you can give that one object all one material and
break it up by Virtex paint.
We've seen that before.
I just want to show you as it's applied to a model that's a little bit more complex.
So we'll do that coming up next.